TUBITAK MAM INTERNSHIP DIARY

Day4
Perturb and Observe Method(wind and photovolataic systems Max. Power Point Tracking Control) research
Converter schematics found in the internet for control
In my design use a capacitor for stabilizng the current drawn from directly the panel since we do not want to
observe overshoots there
The converter is completed as buck converter and the values of the elements are selected. Here, in the design
an external inductor is added parallel to the battery. That is to maintain the desired output current found
in the calculations. The power output of the panel is approx. 9 W. We assume at first that the battery has 3V meaning
that it has 3 A average current. This corresponds to 6A peak value. Selecting the frequency to be used as 20kHz,
having 50Usec period, and using the 30 V input solar panel voltage vs 3V output (instantenous) voltage ratio, we can
say that 0.1 is duty ratio for the continuus-discont. edge mode. from this ratio and from the theoretical triangular
shape we can estimate the L value to be used in the converter(delI*L/delt=delV) Here also adding the voltage drop on the output
resistor ve set V as 3.4 approx.and find L around 25uH. To ensure that the converter stays inthe discont. region for
control ease later on we set L as 22uH  and at the output we use 2.2 uH with a large capacitance to diminish the
jittering voltage.(we do not want the voltage to deviate from the desired value too much.)
With these calculations, the simulations are performed and the results are included in the folder as well.
For the diode a MOSFET can also be used since it creates a large volatge drop (10-20% of the battery voltage), this
MOSFET will let the current pass through in the opposite direction which they are capable of since they are symmetrical
instead of the diode across its drain and source terminals. Owever there must be a control signal such that in case of the
decaying current having reached to 0 value, the MOSFET must switch to prevent a negative current flow which will increase
the rms current(undesired situation!)

Day3
Learned about the different materials(air, ferrite, powdered core, amorph, steel)that is used for winding the inductors.
This is important since it highly affects the frequency range of operation and we would like to operate at higher frequency for
not creating to many noise(physical to the ear), ferrite is thought as ideal for my project. Also, the frequency is important
since I want to operate in the discountinuous mode of operation in the buck-boost converter.
The overall schematic for the project is drawn, there will be a solar panel connected to a DC/DC buck-boost converter with a
control unit, this converter connected to the battery. The controller aims to keep track of the maximum power point of the panel
and also taking the batery's safety into consideration meaning that it will disconnect it if the battery is full.  An additional
part can be introduced if enough time is present. This part includes the charged battery being connected to a 5V USB charger to
charge the telephone. This part is to be done using the controller as well. I am told that the controller will be coded with C, it can
be coded with timers so that it can handle multiple tasks at the same time. This reminds me the time we used to work with Arduino to
control the motor speed:D I think this time I can learn to handle the situation.
For information on batteries: http://batteryuniversity.com/learn/article/charging_lithium_ion_batteries
                              http://www.ti.com/lit/an/snva533/snva533.pdf


Day 1-2
I have elucidated my interests on the power electronics engineering and control.
In the internship I met 3 engineers graduated from our university department.
On the common belief on the fact that high CGPA do not prefer power electronics,
I met Mr. Umut :D
Since I have an interest on power electronics control engineering focusing on
control optimization and design,we decided that I start on a project on designing
a solar panel charging control circuit starting with the background research on
gate drievers, buck and boost converters. I have been scrutinizing this subject on
Power Electornics Converters, Applications and Design Mohan's Book and Also
on the internet. I have downloaded 3 programs to familiarize with:Psim similar
to LTspice, Protheus for PCB design and Simplorer for simulation.
There is a book that I would like to mention:Grid Converters for Photovoltaic and Wind
Power Systems by Remus Teodorescu from Polytechnical University of Bucharest, marco Liserve
from Aalborg University, Denmark and Pedro Rodriguezfrom Catolonia Technical University.
The authors study in the field of designing power electronics and controllers of grid-connected contollers
on renewable energies. I liked the book very much, very encouraging indeed.
I simulated a buck and boost converter.
